configure add-on overview (#1372)
mendersoftware/mender-docs: 09.Add-ons/02.Configure/docs.md

---
title: Configure
taxonomy:
    category: docs
---

> 

Reviewer: Add a header about the commercial package, align with what @merlin-northern asked about for Troubleshoot add-ons.

E.g. "!! Configure is part of a commercial add-on package. See the [Mender features page](https://mender.io/plans/features?target=_blank) for an overview of all Mender plans and features."

Author: I've added something; please take a look

Reviewer: Text is fine, but try to style it the same as the other notes of this kind. E.g. take a look here, and steal the style (I think it's three exclamation marks): https://docs.mender.io/overview/delta-update

Author: done

Configure is a Mender add-on that allows the application of the configuration to the device using Mender.
It is possible to create and apply configuration for the device using Mender UI (see the pictures below).

![configuration-1](deviceconfig1.png)
![configuration-2](deviceconfig2.png)
![configuration-3](deviceconfig3.png)

The configuration is applied in a similar way the updates are applied.
The deviceconfig microservice which is responsible to manage the configuration
uses the deployments service to update the configuration for the device.
The picture below shows the configuration update flow.

![configuration-4](configure1.png)

> The specialized update module is responsible for applying the configuration to the device.

Reviewer: Link to the Update Module on Mender Hub (https://tracker.mender.io/browse/MEN-4424)

Author: there is no info about this update module on the Mender Hub yet

---
title: Configure
taxonomy:
    category: docs
---

!!! Configure is part of a commercial add-on package.
!!! See the [Mender features page](https://mender.io/plans/features) for an overview of all Mender plans and features.

# Overview

Configure is a Mender add-on that allows the application of the configuration to the device using Mender.
It is possible to create and apply configuration for the device using Mender UI (see the pictures below).

![configuration-1](deviceconfig1.png)
![configuration-2](deviceconfig2.png)
![configuration-3](deviceconfig3.png)

# How it works

> The configuration is applied in a similar way the updates are applied.
> The deviceconfig microservice which is responsible to manage the configuration
> uses the deployments service to update the configuration for the device.
> The specialized update module is responsible for applying the configuration to the device.
> You can find more information about the configuration update module on [Mender Hub](https://hub.mender.io).
> The picture below shows the configuration update flow.

Reviewer 2: FWIW
Separating the description between the server and client.

```suggestion
The configuration is applied in a similar way the updates are applied.
`deviceconfig` is a microservice on the server responsible for "translating" a configuration change made in the UI into a deployment.
It then proceeds to trigger a deployment to the device using the same mechanism used in OTA, the `deployments` microservice. 

On the device side, a specialized update module is responsible for applying the configuration.
You can find more information about the configuration update module on [Mender Hub](https://hub.mender.io).
The picture below shows the configuration update flow.
```
